#LyX 1.6.10 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass UCFthesis
\options PhD
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize letterpaper
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 2
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\paperwidth 0cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
INTRODUCTION
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Microfluidics is the science and technology of manipulating small quantities
 of fluid.
 One prominent author considers fluid volumes less than 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{-9}L$
\end_inset

 to be microfluidic 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Whitesides2006"

\end_inset

, while many published microfluidic systems contain up to several mililiters
 of fluid.
 Rather than attempting to agree upon an arbitrary upper limit for the volume
 of the system, a more practical approach is to classify a system based
 upon its characteristics.
 The two defining characteristics of microfluidic systems are the inability
 to induce turbulent flow and the high ratio of surface area to volume.
 At sufficiently small length scales, the flow of a fluid is completely
 laminar and it is virtually impossible to induce turbulence.
 This means that parallel streams of fluids in a microfluidic channel will
 mix only by diffusion, which is a considerably slower process than it would
 be in a macroscale system.
 Therefore, the creation o mixers is one of the defining challenges of microflui
dics.
 Because a microfluidic device has so much surface area relative to its
 volume, a large fraction of the fluid has the potential to interact with
 the surface.
 Interfacial phenomena such as protein adsorption are much more significant
 in a microfluidic device compared to a conventional one.
 Since fluid that is in contact with a surface is generally stationary and
 turbulence does not occur, diffusion is the only way that solute can be
 transported near the surface.
 This phenomenon may impose a significant challenge if the purpose of the
 device is to deliver nutrients to a layer of cells or analyte to the surface
 of sensor.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Microfluidic technology has been applied to many fields.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Microfluidic technology has had a significant impact on the field of biology.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A general overview of the field of microfluidics can be found in a recent
 special issue of 
\emph on
Lab on a Chip
\emph default
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Santiago2009"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Transport in Microfluidic Systems
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Protein Adsorption
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Non-specific binding (adsorption) of biomolecules at solid-liquid interfaces
 affects the function of materials and devices intended for use with physiologic
al fluids and tissues 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Andrade1986"

\end_inset

.
 Microfluidic devices are especially prone to protein adsorption because
 of the large amount of surface area relative to volume of the device.
 Protein adsorption is the first step in many important biological processes,
 including the attachment of cells to bioengineered surfaces, the coagulation
 of blood, and the response of the immune system to an implanted device.
 Therefore, biomolecule adsorption is a crucial factor in determining the
 long-term efficacy of lab-on-chip systems, implants, and medical devices
 that contact blood or other biological fluids.
 Non-specific binding also affects the detection limits of biosensors when
 analyte is lost by adsorption to the walls of the channel.
 Adsorption of biomolecules is also the first step in the formation of unwanted
 biofilms that can lead to clogging.
 Proteins are particularly notorious for their ability to non-specifically
 stick to materials.
 Adsorption induced changes in the structure of a protein molecule are critical
 to determine its subsequent function.
 However, the inherent variability of protein sequence and structure makes
 the prediction of protein adsorption from first principles an intractable
 problem 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Wilson2004"

\end_inset

.
 Thus, it is necessary to devise experimental solutions for making quantitative
 observations that can be used to assess the biocompatibility of materials.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Experimental Measurements of Protein Adsorption
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There is a vast body of experimental research on protein adsorption.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Models of Protein Adsorption
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Although experimental measurements are indispensible for studying protein
 adsorption, the development of models is critical to understand and interpret
 experimental results.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This work describes theoretical advances in the modeling of microfluidic
 systems and demonstrates the practical application of those techniques.
 A new continuum model of the adsorption of hard spheres was formulated
 to bridge the gap between simulations of discrete particles and continuum
 fluid dynamics.
 A whispering gallery mode (WGM) biosensor was constructed and used to measure
 the kinetics of protein adsorption on four types of surfaces.
 Computational fluid dynamics was used to analyze the transport of proteins
 in the flow cell of the biosensor.
 Kinetic models of protein adsorption that take transport limitations into
 account were fitted to the experimental data and used to draw conclusions
 about the mechanisms of adsorption.
 Transport simulations were then applied to the practical design problem
 of optimizing flow in a microfluidic bioreactor.
 Experiments were used to validate the transport simulations.
 The combination of quantitative modeling and simulation with experimental
 work leads to results that could not be achieved by either method by itself.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
